Apply post: helping candidates navigate between tabs CA (#1047)
DFE-Digital/bat-design-history: app/posts/apply-for-teacher-training/2023-11-01-helping-users-navigate-between-tabs.md

---
title: Helping users navigate between their task list and submitting applications

> description: We designed and added additional navigations on your details and your applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: We designed and added extra navigation links and buttons to help candidates navigate between their task list and submitting applications.
```

date: 2023-11-01
tags:
  - navigation
  - tabs
---

We designed and implemented additional navigation links and call to actions (CTAs) between the ['Your details’ and ‘Your applications’ tabs](/apply-for-teacher-training/adding-a-navigation-bar/) in Apply for teacher training (Apply).

> These improvements aim to improve the user experience and helps candidates seamlessly transition between managing their details, adding applications and viewing applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These changes aim to improve the user experience and help candidates seamlessly transition between managing their details, adding applications and viewing applications.
```

Once a candidate has completed their details, we also render a link at the top of the page. This links them to the ‘Your applications’ tab. The link will disappear once the candidate has added 4 application choices.

![Screenshot of a link at the top of your details page](details-to-applications.png)

### Link on the ‘Your applications’ tab when a candidate has not completed their details

We also render a link on the ‘Your applications’ tab which links them to their details. We hide this link once they have completed their details.

![Screenshot of a link on your applications tab](your-applications-to-your-details.png)

### Link back to the ‘Your details’ tab when the candidate has not completed their details

If the candidate chooses their training provider and course but they have not completed their details, they cannot submit their application. We hide the submission button and instead, render content which links them to their details and confirms that their application will be saved as a draft.

![Screenshot of the new content and link on the application review page](course-review.png)

## User testing

> We have conducted user research sessions to test this new navigation that has been launched as part of the 2023 to 2024 recruitment cycle. We have received some good feedback that allows us to understand the issue better.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We conducted user research sessions to test this new navigation that has been launched as part of the 2023 to 2024 recruitment cycle. We received some good feedback that allows us to understand the issue better.
```
